One of the many ways sales forecasting can be used is to predict what customers will want, manage inventory, make strategic plans, set goals and objectives that can be reached, and come up with a marketing plan. However, close to 80 percent of sales teams came up short of their expectations by at least 10 percent. According to the study's results, a company's chances of meeting its revenue and sales goals go up by more than seven percentage attributes if the company's sales estimates are accurate. If sales are a game of inches, then doing an excellent job of forecasting is like getting an extra inch of leverage that you can use to reach your annual goals and keep the growth going. If sales are a game of inches, then being able to make accurate predictions is like getting an extra inch of leverage.

We as a group have developed a dashboard in Python that will be of assistance from a business standpoint and will concentrate on ways in which the organization may generate more money. In recent years, sectors connected to retail have given the impression of being the busiest as well as the ones rising at the quickest rate. The whole industry is trying to improve its product offerings to accommodate the quickly shifting consumer spending patterns and stay competitive in the market. 

The need of customers for in-store experiences and the constant effort to use modern technologies are the key driving elements behind this development. Retailers are looking to use innovative technologies that are alluring, exciting, and interesting to improve their management techniques and attract more consumers. 

We have used Python Streamlit to create the dashboard, which will be used to create visualizations to understand the sales and profit patterns based on the product category and sub-category in different regions, how discount percentage impacted profits of certain products, the overall performance of sales based on customers on sales and profits and based on the product category, identifying the trends of sales and profit and forecasting the product bundles that could be sold together to generate the profit.

The application of time series analysis to (aggregated) customer sales data to anticipate future sales volumes is a method for forecasting demand that is well-known and has been extensively researched. Models that use customer-specific data, such as a customer's purchase history, perform better than models that just utilize data from all consumers when the goal is to forecast the next basket that will be purchased by a particular customer.
